
# Fluid Earth web component


## Description

Fluid Earth comes as a freestanding application, but it also includes a simplified web
component that can be integrated into other web sites. If you want to make use of
Fluid Earth in your own applications, you may be able to accomplish this more easily
by using the web component instead of forking and modifying the full code.

By default, the web component instantiates a blank globe with no user interaction.
Globe parameters can be set programatically through exposed parameters like latitude/
longitude, zoom level, base color, etc.

Additional functionality, such as interaction surface, geography, location markers
and raster/streamline data layers, can be reimplemented as needed. See "Help with
development" below for more info about reimplementing features.


## Getting Started

### Dependencies

The web component is generated by running the following command:
```
npm run build:webcomponent
```
Once this has been run, the web component will be located at `/dist/webcomponent.js`.


### Utilizing the component

To use the component in a web page, include the script in the top-level folder and
import it like so:
```
<script src='./webcomponent.js'></script>
```

The component can then be added to the page <body> using the HTML tag for the
earth-map class:
```
<earth-map></earth-map>
```

### Setting component attributes

The web component can be accessed from within the page JavaScript with:
```
let earthMap = document.querySelector('earth-map');
```

Exposed attributes of the component can then be modified like so:
```
earthMap.<attribute> = <value>;
```

Here are some of the attributes exposed by the component:
* centerLongitude: float from -180 (west) to 180 (east)
* centerLatitude: float from -90 (south) to 90 (north)
* zoom: float from 0.5 to 15 (with 1 being standard zoom)
* griddedBaseColor: rgba array which defines the base color of the globe (shown
when the raster data value is NaN)
* vectorData: json object in topojson format (defining the vector geography)
* vectorColors: JS object (taking an rgba array defining the color for each of the
object keys in the vectorData topojson)
* syncWithAnimationHook: function to be executed each time the globe changes

Other attributes are also available, derived from the top-level variables in the
freestanding application's `src/App.svelte` file.



## Help with development

We have included a demo site in /exports/webcomponent/demo/ that can be used as
a template for reimplementing some features of the freestanding application.

For more advanced features, the code in the freestanding version of the
application can be used as a guide for reimplementation.

For questions regarding development using the web component, or for using or
modifying the full version of the application code, contact our group at the
Byrd Polar and Climate Research Center ([gravina.2@osu.edu](mailto:gravina.2@osu.edu)).
